[Pages]: Update Astro framework guide (#5499)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/astro.md

## Setting up a new project

Create a new project directory and then initiate Astro's official setup tool by running:

```sh

> $ npm create astro@latest

Reviewer: it doesn't cd us into the dir, so we should add that instruction here

Author: Oh, but when you run `npm create astro@latest` it creates your directory for you with the project name, that's why I removed the `mkdir astro-site` because that would mean the astro project will be nested `astro-site/project-name`

Reviewer: yeah, it makes the dir but doesn't move you into it. Just adding a `cd <project-name>` or something is probably good

Author: oh! I see after the project is created. Done! Thank Walshy

> $ npm create astro@latest

Author: ```suggestion
$ npm create astro@latest
# cd into created project
$ cd <project-name>
```

$ git push -u origin main
```

## Using Pages Functions

[Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) enable you to run server-side code to add dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server.

> To get started, create a `/functions` directory at the root of your project. Writing your Functions files in this directory automatically generates a Worker with custom functionality at the predesignated routes. To learn more about writing Functions, see the [Pages Functions documentation](/pages/platform/functions/).

Reviewer: we already say root :)

```suggestion
To get started, create a `functions` directory at the root of your project. Writing your Functions files in this directory automatically generates a Worker with custom functionality at the predesignated routes. To learn more about writing Functions, see the [Pages Functions documentation](/pages/platform/functions/).
```

$ git push -u origin main
```

## Using Pages Functions

[Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) enable you to run server-side code to add dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server.

> To get started, create a `functions` directory at the root of your project. Writing your Functions files in this directory automatically generates a Worker with custom functionality at the predesignated routes. To learn more about writing Functions, see the [Pages Functions documentation](/pages/platform/functions/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, create a `functions` directory at the root of your project. Writing your Functions files in this directory automatically generates a Worker with custom functionality at the predesignated routes. To learn more, refer to[Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/).
```

### Astro Configuration

> You can also deploy an Astro Server-side Rendered (SSR) site to Cloudflare Pages using the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme). SSR sites render on Pages Functions and allow for dynamic functionality and customizations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can deploy an Astro Server-side Rendered (SSR) site to Cloudflare Pages using the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme). SSR sites render on Pages Functions and allow for dynamic functionality and customizations.
```

> To enable an SSR site and deploy to Cloudflare Pages, you will need to add the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) to your project's `package.json` by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable an SSR site and deploy to Cloudflare Pages, add the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) to your project's `package.json` by running:
```

```sh
$ npm run astro add cloudflare
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Modes

There are currently two modes supported when using Pages Functions with the [`@astrojs/cloudflare`](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) adapter. 

> 1. **Advanced** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `advanced` mode which picks up the `_worker.js` in `dist`, or a directory mode where pages will compile the worker out of a functions folder in the project root.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Advanced** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your Function in `advanced` mode. This mode picks up the `_worker.js` in `dist`, or a directory mode where Pages will compile the Worker out of a Functions folder in the project root.  
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

If no mode is set, the default is `"advanced"`

{{</Aside>}}

> 2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client side part of you app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will only ever place a `[[path]].js` in that folder, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client side part of your app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will allow you to access your Pages functions from a `functions` directory, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.
```

> 2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client side part of your app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will allow you to access your Pages functions from a `functions` directory, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client-side part of your app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will allow you to access your Pages Functions from your `functions` folder, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.
```

> 2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client-side part of your app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will allow you to access your Pages Functions from your `functions` folder, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your Function in `directory` mode. In this mode, the adapter will compile the client-side part of your application the same way, but it will move the Worker into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will allow you to access your Pages Functions from your `functions` folder, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.
```

> To use Directory mode, modify your `astro.config.mjs` file to add `mode: "directory"` to the adapter configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Directory mode, modify your `astro.config.mjs` file to add `mode: "directory"` to the adapter configuration:

```

$ git push -u origin main
```

## Using Pages Functions

[Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) enable you to run server-side code to add dynamic functionality without running a dedicated server.

To get started, create a `functions` directory at the root of your project. Writing your Functions files in this directory automatically generates a Worker with custom functionality at the predesignated routes. To learn more about writing Functions, see the [Pages Functions documentation](/pages/platform/functions/).

### Astro Configuration

> You can also deploy an Astro SSR site to Cloudflare Pages using the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also deploy an Astro Server-side Rendered (SSR) site to Cloudflare Pages using the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme). SSR sites render on Pages Functions and allow for dynamic functionality and customizations.
```

To enable an SSR site and deploy to Cloudflare Pages, you will need to:

1. Add the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) to your project's `package.json` by running:

```sh

> $ npm install --save-dev @astrojs/cloudflare

Author: This makes sense. I did not know about this helper. Thanks Isaac

> To enable an SSR site and deploy to Cloudflare Pages, you will need to:
> 
> 1. Add the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) to your project's `package.json` by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable an SSR site and deploy to Cloudflare Pages, you will need to add the [`@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) to your project's `package.json` by running:
```

```

> 2. Add the following to your `astro.config.mjs` file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Add `output: server` to your `astro.config.mjs` file, similar to the following (yours may be slightly different):
```

```js
--- 
filename: astro.config.mjs

> highlight: [2,5]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: Got rid of the highlight because they only need to add the one line.

import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import cloudflare from '@astrojs/cloudflare';

> export default defineConfig({

Reviewer: Should we add preact to this @isaac-mcfadyen ?

I know we say "yours may be slightly different" but feels like that's the only missing piece from the default setup anyway

Also, should we ask the Astro people to make the `astro add cloudflare` append the `output: 'server'` automatically?

Reviewer 3: Their reply: `Ah yes! This was just something we missed, will try to fix this in the next release` so sounds like we can probably omit the `output: server` step.

Reviewer: There've got a PR up for this now - https://github.com/withastro/astro/pull/4289

So yeah, I'd say not add the output part

> 2. Add `output: 'server'` to your `astro.config.mjs` file, similar to the following (yours may be slightly different):
> 
> ```js
> --- 
> filename: astro.config.mjs
> ---
> import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
> import cloudflare from '@astrojs/cloudflare';
> export default defineConfig({
>   output: 'server',
>   adapter: cloudflare()
> });
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

### Modes

There are currently two modes supported when using Pages Functions with the [`@astrojs/cloudflare`](https://github.com/withastro/astro/tree/main/packages/integrations/cloudflare#readme) adapter. 

1. **Advanced** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `advanced` mode which picks up the `_worker.js` in `dist`, or a directory mode where pages will compile the worker out of a functions folder in the project root.  

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> If no mode is set, the default  is `"advanced"`

Reviewer: they'd need to add `output: 'server'` here still right @isaac-mcfadyen ?

Reviewer 3: Indeed, but I assume they would have added it based on the above L78.

Reviewer: do we want to keep that part considering the `astro add cloudflare` will handle it (apart from server + directory)

Reviewer 3: So the `astro add cloudflare` will add the `adapter: cloudflare()` but won't add `output: "server"` or the directory mode if they want it.

So yeah, I would simplify things to:
- run `astro add cloudflare`
- add `output: server`
- *if* you want Directory mode, then add that

Rather than just giving them a whole config file and being like "here, add this"

Reviewer: Agreed!

Author: Now running `npm run astro add cloudflare` will add 

```
output: "server",  
adapter: cloudflare()

```

> If no mode is set, the default  is `"advanced"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no mode is set, the default is `"advanced"`
```

{{</Aside>}}

> 2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client side part of you app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adaptor will only ever place a `[[path]].js` in that folder, allowing you to add additional plugins and pages middleware which can be checked into version control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Directory** mode: This mode is used when you want to run your function in `directory` mode, which means the adapter will compile the client side part of you app the same way, but it will move the worker script into a `functions` folder in the project root. The adapter will only ever place a `[[path]].js` in that folder, allowing you to add [Pages Plugins](/pages/platform/functions/plugins/) and [Middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware) which can be checked into version control.
```

Small typo fix and added Pages Plugins & Middleware links.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use Directory mode, modify your astro.config.mjs file to the following:
```

Added clarification on what this next snippet is.

```js
--- 
filename: astro.config.mjs
highlight: [2]
---

> export default defineConfig({

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
export default defineConfig({
  output: 'server',
```

  adapter: cloudflare({ mode: "directory" }),

> });

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  output: 'server'
});
```

Added missing output: server.
